README.md, before:

# Kodama

![Theme screenshot](./screenshot.png)
## Summary

This theme is greatly inspired from hugo academic theme.

First lets introduce some technical details:
- It relies on [zola](https://getzola.com).
- It has no javascript.
- The CSS is built with [tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com/).
    - The blog articles are themed with [@tailwindcss/typography](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/typography-plugin) theme.


## Getting started

The best way to get started is to follow the official [zola tutorial](https://www.getzola.org/documentation/getting-started/overview/).

This theme can be installed as any other theme.

```
mkdir themes
cd themes & git clone https://github.com/adfaure/kodama-theme
```

and set in the `config.toml` the variable `theme` to `kodama-theme`.

### Generate the CSS

[Tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com/) is a framework that parses your html files, and generate the minimal CSS required.
This theme depends on this framework.

The theme comes with the precompiled style files (`static/styles/styles.css`). However, if you wish to change the style, or modify the template htlm, you might need to recompile your styles.

The most simple way, is to follow the [installation page of tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation).

At the end, you should have tailwindcss installed, and I advise to use the following tailwind configuration:

```js
# tailwind.config.js
module.exports = {
  content: ["./templates/**/*.html", "./themes/**/*.html",  "./themes/**/*.html"],
  theme: {},
  variants: {},
  plugins: [
      require('@tailwindcss/typography'),
  ],
};
```

Create a file `styles/styles.css`, and use the following command to generate the final CSS file:

```
npx tailwindcss -i styles/styles.css -o static/styles/styles.css
```

The resulting file `static/styles/styles.css` is loaded in the html.

*Note that, for the moment the generation of the css is not automated. As a result, it is necessary to re-run this command when changes are made with the styling.*

## Configuration

This theme use some extra configuration, that can be set in the extra section of your `config.toml`.

```toml
# Title displayed in the index page
title = "Website title"

# Use this theme
theme = "kodama-theme"

[extra]

# Image of your avatar displayed on the landing page
avatar = "static/img/avatar.jpg"
# Image of the favicon
favicon = "static/img/avatar.jpg"

# Your email address showed in the contact section
email = "kodama[at]domain.com"

# If you don't want to show your contact information in the index
contact_in_index = true

# Additional menu items
# `Name` is what it is displayed, `path` is the url
menu_items = [
  { path = "#contacts", name = "Contact" },
]
```

## Index page

The information needed to build the index page are located in the page [front matter](https://www.getzola.org/documentation/content/page/#front-matter) of root index file (e.g `content/_index.md`).

The available configuration options are:

```toml
# Insert zola front matter variable such as date etc

[extra]

# Show a concise description of what you do below your avatar.
title = "Concise description"

# The list of interests displayed
interests = [
  "Rainbow pony",
  "Martian food",
  "Quantic science"
]

# The list of your degrees / education
[[extra.education.courses]]
  course = "Latest degree"
  institution = "Some acamedy"
  year = 2020

[[extra.education.courses]]
  course = "Another degree"
  institution = "Here and there"
  year = 2016

# Finally, a list of icons with a link displayed below your avatar
[[extra.avatar_icons]]
  icon = "github"
  link = "https://github.com/adfaure"
[[extra.avatar_icons]]
  icon = "gitlab"
  link = "https://gitlab.com/adfaure"
[[extra.avatar_icons]]
  icon = "linkedin"
  link = "https://www.linkedin.com/in/adrien-faure-9958978b/"
```
## Contact

The predefined contact page can be use.
The front matter extra part should contains a list of the link to show in the contacts.

## Sections

The section available in your website are automatically detected and displayed in the nav bar at the top of the page.
To prevent a section to be displayed in the nav bar, you can set the extra front matter option `extra.hidden_nav = false` to false.

The section are sorted by `weight` defined in the front matter of the section.

By default, the sections (i.e folders under `content/section_name`) have a summary showed in the index.
This is configurable in the front matter of the section (e.g `content/section_name/_index.md`).

```toml
# The name displayed in the section summary
extra.index_title = "Recent Posts"
# Set to false to remove the section from the index
extra.index_show = true
```

### Blog

The section `blog` is the most standard section. It show a list of article with things that you want to share in your website.
To use the blog template, configure the section with the following front matter:

```toml
template = "blog.html"
page_template = "blog-page.html"
```

### Publications

The section `publication` is very similar to the `blog` section however it is dedicated to show your list of scientific articles.
The articles are showed in two subcategories: Thesis and Conference / Workshop.

To configure a publication section (e.g `content/research`) and set the following content:

```md
+++
title = "Research"
sort_by = "date"

# Here the two dedicated templates
template = "publications.html"
page_template = "publication-page.html"
+++

## Content

Any content will be displayed on top of the section.
```

Article are referenced in subdirectories of this section.
```
tree content/research
content/research
├── _index.md
├── paper1
│   ├── bib
│   └── index.md
└── thesis
    ├── bib
    ├── index.md
    ├── thesis.pdf
    └── thesis_slides.pdf
```

The bib files are automatically loaded to get information from it. However, it is also possible to add information in the front matter of the article markdown file.

```markdown
+++
title = "Article 1"
date = 2021-05-18

[extra]
type = "Conference"
authors = [ "Kodama Mononoke" ]
publication_types = "Conference paper"
featured = true
publication = "2020 IEE rainbow workshop"
# Add full url for your pdf and your presentation
url_pdf = "https://your-pdf"
url_slides = "path_to_slides"

# Add a link to a local pdf inside of your paper folder (example in content/publications/paper1.index.md)
pdf = "paper.pdf"
slides = "path_to_slides.pdf"
+++
```

## Icons

The icons available in this project are stored in a dedicated macro function in `templates/macros/icons.html`.
To add a new svg, you can add a case in the `if elif .. else` of the function containing the svg copied from [heroicons](https://heroicons.com/) for instance.

Commit message:

repo: readme about publication type

README.md, after:

# Kodama

![Theme screenshot](./screenshot.png)
## Summary

This theme is greatly inspired from hugo academic theme.

First lets introduce some technical details:
- It relies on [zola](https://getzola.com).
- It has no javascript.
- The CSS is built with [tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com/).
    - The blog articles are themed with [@tailwindcss/typography](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/typography-plugin) theme.


## Getting started

The best way to get started is to follow the official [zola tutorial](https://www.getzola.org/documentation/getting-started/overview/).

This theme can be installed as any other theme.

```
mkdir themes
cd themes & git clone https://github.com/adfaure/kodama-theme
```

and set in the `config.toml` the variable `theme` to `kodama-theme`.

### Generate the CSS

[Tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com/) is a framework that parses your html files, and generate the minimal CSS required.
This theme depends on this framework.

The theme comes with the precompiled style files (`static/styles/styles.css`). However, if you wish to change the style, or modify the template htlm, you might need to recompile your styles.

The most simple way, is to follow the [installation page of tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation).

At the end, you should have tailwindcss installed, and I advise to use the following tailwind configuration:

```js
# tailwind.config.js
module.exports = {
  content: ["./templates/**/*.html", "./themes/**/*.html",  "./themes/**/*.html"],
  theme: {},
  variants: {},
  plugins: [
      require('@tailwindcss/typography'),
  ],
};
```

Create a file `styles/styles.css`, and use the following command to generate the final CSS file:

```
npx tailwindcss -i styles/styles.css -o static/styles/styles.css
```

The resulting file `static/styles/styles.css` is loaded in the html.

*Note that, for the moment the generation of the css is not automated. As a result, it is necessary to re-run this command when changes are made with the styling.*

## Configuration

This theme use some extra configuration, that can be set in the extra section of your `config.toml`.

```toml
# Title displayed in the index page
title = "Website title"

# Use this theme
theme = "kodama-theme"

[extra]

# Image of your avatar displayed on the landing page
avatar = "static/img/avatar.jpg"
# Image of the favicon
favicon = "static/img/avatar.jpg"

# Your email address showed in the contact section
email = "kodama[at]domain.com"

# If you don't want to show your contact information in the index
contact_in_index = true

# Additional menu items
# `Name` is what it is displayed, `path` is the url
menu_items = [
  { path = "#contacts", name = "Contact" },
]
```

## Index page

The information needed to build the index page are located in the page [front matter](https://www.getzola.org/documentation/content/page/#front-matter) of root index file (e.g `content/_index.md`).

The available configuration options are:

```toml
# Insert zola front matter variable such as date etc

[extra]

# Show a concise description of what you do below your avatar.
title = "Concise description"

# The list of interests displayed
interests = [
  "Rainbow pony",
  "Martian food",
  "Quantic science"
]

# The list of your degrees / education
[[extra.education.courses]]
  course = "Latest degree"
  institution = "Some acamedy"
  year = 2020

[[extra.education.courses]]
  course = "Another degree"
  institution = "Here and there"
  year = 2016

# Finally, a list of icons with a link displayed below your avatar
[[extra.avatar_icons]]
  icon = "github"
  link = "https://github.com/adfaure"
[[extra.avatar_icons]]
  icon = "gitlab"
  link = "https://gitlab.com/adfaure"
[[extra.avatar_icons]]
  icon = "linkedin"
  link = "https://www.linkedin.com/in/adrien-faure-9958978b/"
```
## Contact

The predefined contact page can be use.
The front matter extra part should contains a list of the link to show in the contacts.

## Sections

The section available in your website are automatically detected and displayed in the nav bar at the top of the page.
To prevent a section to be displayed in the nav bar, you can set the extra front matter option `extra.hidden_nav = false` to false.

The section are sorted by `weight` defined in the front matter of the section.

By default, the sections (i.e folders under `content/section_name`) have a summary showed in the index.
This is configurable in the front matter of the section (e.g `content/section_name/_index.md`).

```toml
# The name displayed in the section summary
extra.index_title = "Recent Posts"
# Set to false to remove the section from the index
extra.index_show = true
```

### Blog

The section `blog` is the most standard section. It show a list of article with things that you want to share in your website.
To use the blog template, configure the section with the following front matter:

```toml
template = "blog.html"
page_template = "blog-page.html"
```

### Publications

The section `publication` is very similar to the `blog` section however it is dedicated to show your list of scientific articles.
The articles are showed in two subcategories: Thesis and Conference / Workshop.

To configure a publication section (e.g `content/research`) and set the following content:

```md
+++
title = "Research"
sort_by = "date"

# Here the two dedicated templates
template = "publications.html"
page_template = "publication-page.html"

# If you want to show your publications under different sections
# the title will be the displayed text in your website, and the type
# should be the type of publication.
# Each individual plublication has an `extra.type` that refers to the
# publication type (example in content sub-section).
extra.publications_types = [
  { title = "Journal articles", type = "journals" },
  { title = "Thesis", type = "thesis" },
  { title = "Conferences and workshops ", type = "conferences" }
]
+++

## Content

Any content will be displayed on top of the section.
```

Article are referenced in subdirectories of this section.
```
tree content/research
content/research
├── _index.md
├── paper1
│   ├── bib
│   └── index.md
└── thesis
    ├── bib
    ├── index.md
    ├── thesis.pdf
    └── thesis_slides.pdf
```

The bib files are automatically loaded to get information from it. However, it is also possible to add information in the front matter of the article markdown file.

```markdown
+++
title = "Article 1"
date = 2021-05-18

[extra]
type = "Conference"
authors = [ "Kodama Mononoke" ]

# Should be the type of the publication type it should appears under
# configured in the front matter of publications/_index.md
publication_types = "conferences"

featured = true
publication = "2020 IEE rainbow workshop"
# Add full url for your pdf and your presentation
url_pdf = "https://your-pdf"
url_slides = "path_to_slides"

# Add a link to a local pdf inside of your paper folder (example in content/publications/paper1.index.md)
pdf = "paper.pdf"
slides = "path_to_slides.pdf"
+++
```

## Icons

The icons available in this project are stored in a dedicated macro function in `templates/macros/icons.html`.
To add a new svg, you can add a case in the `if elif .. else` of the function containing the svg copied from [heroicons](https://heroicons.com/) for instance.
